# Apisense

## What are we trying to solve?

There exist many APIs and web services nowadays which just muatate and redestribute data. For example think about APIs serving data from a sensor or something similar.
We encountered the problem of so called "data holes" (lack of data for a prolonged period of time) in the APIs of the [OpenDataHub](https://opendatahub.com). The problem is, that
the provider of the data doesn't check the data it gets and just redestributes it.

The idea was to create a tool which can monitor and check the data of an API and report back to the user if there are any problems with the data.

## How do we solve it?

The user can define an API endpoint to check. He can then define "test cases" by suppltying different parameters to insert in the URL. The tool will then fetch the data from the API and
validate it against predefined validators. These range from simple checks like "is the data a number" to more complex checks like "is the data in a certain range".

If the prebuilt validators are not enough the user can define an "external" validator which is just a program which gets the data as input and the app then validates the data
by checking the exit code of the program.

The platform is built in the most flexible way so that the user has the most freedom to define his own validators and test cases.

## What can we do with it?

The reports generated by the program can be used everywhere: The app can export the data in various formats like JSON, CSV or XML.
The reports can then be used to visualize the data: The end-user can see the validation results for each endpoint request and identify which endpoints are problematic.
